Hi there.
This is the De La Rue.
And welcome back.
Let's now quickly look at a related construct called constructor references, which are similar to method
references.
Method references we know are references to methods and are assigned to functional interfaces.
Similarly, constructor references, as the name implies, are references to constructors and they are
also assigned to functional interfaces.
Constructor.
References are used for constructing objects because they are references to constructors and that's
what constructors do.
Syntax wise.
Both method references and constructor references are very similar to each other.
With method references, we have the target reference type, which is then followed by the delimiter,
the two columns which is then followed by the method name.
And with constructor references we have the class name followed by the same delimiter, the two columns
which is then followed by the new keyword.
And we know that new keyword is what is used to invoke constructor code and so the same new keyword
has been retained for constructor references.
So this is going to be a short demo and some of the subsequent lectures on stream API, we will be looking
at constructive references to at certain points, we will be using constructor references.
So let's just go ahead and look at constructor references in action.
So this is the Functional Interface demo.
So I have commented out most of the code in the main method.
So here we have a few statements where we are going to use constructor references.
And initially here we are constructing some objects and we are using lambdas.
Now we are going to change this lambdas into constructor references.
So in the first statement here we are constructing an empty string and it is being assigned to a supplier
and supplier we know is used for constructing objects.
That is, it supplies objects.
And here in this case it is going to supply a string.
So in the print statement we are invoking the get method on the supplier and the get method would return
a string object.
So this is a lambda.
So let's just go ahead and change it to a constructor reference.
So that's it.
So we have the class name followed by the two columns, which is then followed by the new keyword.
So the syntax is very similar to method references.
In fact, it is more similar to static method references, references to static methods because we are
using the class name and static method references.
Also use class name as a prefix to the delimiter.
Okay.
So this is how it is done.
Now, here, in the second example, we are once again constructing a string object, but here we are
invoking the overloaded version of the string constructor.
So we are passing a string and this is returning a string instance.
So here we are assigning it to a function because function is going to take a string in this case and
is going to return another string instance.
So that is what is happening here.
The input is string and the output is also a string.
So this is what is going to be written.
So this is the string here.
This is the input and this is the output.
And we know that that's what function does.
It takes an input and transforms it into another object.
So that's what is happening here.
And so here in the print statement, we are invoking the apply method and we are passing Java as an
input and the output would be a string object with Java.
And here in the third example.
So let me just go ahead and change this.
So even here, it's going to be the same syntax for constructor reference.
It's going to be the same as the previous one, even though it is going to invoke the overloaded constructor.
So the decision onto which constructor to invoke is based on the context.
In this case, the context is here a supplier.
So supplier does not take any parameters and it just produces an object.
So it's going to invoke a no constructor.
So in this case, it's going to invoke the no ARG String constructor, whereas in this case, it's going
to invoke the constructor, which takes a single parameter which is off type string and it is going
to return a string.
So in this case, the context helps us in choosing the right constructor.
Now in the third case, we are constructing a hash map here.
And for this, this version of the hash map constructor is invoked, which is taking an initial capacity
and a load factor.
So typically we invoke the hash map method, which does not take any arguments in our constructor,
but in this case, this is what we are doing.
So the input is.
The capacity, which is of type integer and the load factor, which is of type float.
And this is the return value.
Since there are two inputs, we are using a bi function, so it's taking two parameters to arguments
and this constructing a new object which is of type hash map.
So that is what is being done here.
So for this.
This is the syntax.
So we do not pass any arguments here, whether it is constructor references or method references, and
the arguments are actually passed when we are invoking the concerned method on the functional interface.
Right.
So this is what we have here.
But typically you will see such constructive references assigned to supplier.
That's what we will see.
And later also when we are looking at the demos for Stream API.
So there are instances where we are using constructor references and they are all assigned to supplier
supplier functional interface.
Now here what we are doing is we are constructing a string, but it is being assigned to a consumer.
And consumer we know has this method called accept, which takes a single parameter, but the return
type of accept is void, so it's not going to return anything.
So which means that the string object that is going to be created within the accept method will not
return anything.
Right?
It will.
The string object is constructed, but the accept method does not return anything which makes it pointless.
So it is really of no use to assign a string constructor reference to a consumer because the consumer
does not return anything.
So if it was returning some things, an object, just like in the case of supplier or function or by
function, then it makes sense to assign a constructor reference.
But in this case, since the consumer is not going to return anything, it does not make sense to assign
it.
But still it compiles fine and the object will also get created.
It's just that the exit method does not return anything, so making it useless.
So that's the thing.
So here we are using supplier function by function.
Now let's say the object that we need to construct.
Let's say if the constructor takes more than two parameters, let's say it takes four or five parameters
and returns an object.
And if we do not have any standard functional interface representing that kind of a constructor, then
we would have to create our own functional interface and then we would have to assign our constructor
reference to that function interface.
So that's what this comment here says create own interface if existing functional interfaces are not
useful.
So that's about it.
So let me just go ahead and run this.
Here it is.
So the suppliers get here.
It prints an empty string.
So because we are constructing an empty string here.
Empty string.
And it has it just does not have any value.
So it would print an empty string.
So thus in the second example, we are passing Java.
So the string object has the string java and that is what is getting printed here when the function
method is invoked.
So a string object is returned and that string object has the keyword java and that's being printed
in the second.
In the third example, a hash map is being created, but it's an empty hash map.
So we just have these braces here, empty braces.
So that's what it is.
So that's about constructor references and we will see few instances of using constructor references
and some of the subsequent demos that said thank you and happy coding.